#A Personal "Investment" Thesis

Much of software “eating” the world, X being unbundled, and our shift to from the industrial age into information age is centered around reducing friction. This removal of friction is seen a net positive. It often is, but as friction is removed, something beyond it is lost as well. A very obvious example of this is simple interaction with other people. Relying on InstaCart and never going to the grocery store, means you never develop a relationship with your local shopkeeper; never have a chance encounter with an old colleague; never slip on the grape that rolled on to the floor at the market. Not slipping on the grape is probably a good thing. But what if that chance encounter with an old colleague would have led to a new gig? How does no longer seeing a face at the other end of a transaction affect our sense of home and community? 

By reducing the friction surrounding a primary interaction, we discard dozens of secondary interactions. It is my belief, that in these left behind interactions, one can search for opportunities to create something new and genuinely valuable to people. While some of them we will be happy to discard (like the risk of tripping on the sidewalk on the way to the store), there are others (like running into an old colleague) that, in their absence, we are probably less well off. Digging deep into this will, in my mind, provide a well of ideas worth working on. Ideas that are both valuable to me and the world at large.

Examining this area for opportunities to create something is compelling to me for a couple of reasons. First, I have always been drawn to finding things that are interesting and beautiful in places that are not expected. From music to food, I often choose that which is a little “challenging” at first. Not weird for the sake for weird, but something genuinely comforting and beautiful that is not thought of that way by default. Second, I am drawn to the question, “what is left after all the friction is gone?” What happens when we can get what we want when we want it without effort at all? What is left for us to do? I think that underneath all the physical and intellectual effort we put into everyday life, there is a layer of social and emotional interactions that we need. It’s these interactions that are most likely to be lost as we reduce friction across the board. And because these interactions have not always been easy for me, I am drawn to understanding them and helping the remain.
